# Eric Calderwood, *On Earth or in Poems*

current and recent invocations and representatiosn of al-Andalus in the realms
of politics, literature, and the visual and performing arts, are more about the
present than about the past itself

as per the author's own words:
the study of the afterlives of al-Andalus has driven him to 
move away from being concerned about the ontology of al-Andalus, and towards a
phenomenology, that is, to account for the ways in which it has manifested in
different cultural and historial contexts.

not a tangible, palpable echo of the past that requires study as a fixed object,
not only because al-Andalus' boundaries were not fixed but rather in perpetual
flux from 711 to 1492; but rather a method, and one that requires crossing
linguistic, geographic, and disciplinary boundaries, but that exposes how those
boundaries came into being

from mobilising ideas of *convivencia* or inter-faith and inter-ethnic
coexistence in contexts of oppression or as part of colonialist propaganda, to
supporting Palestine, obfuscate certain forms of diversity while enabling others

how he does this happen?

the "Arab" al-Andalus (Chapter 1), the erasure of Amazigh history in
scholarship,
literature and film


as in previous scholarship by Calderwood, extreme ease at moving between
periods, geographies, and different types of materials, while recognising their
specific conditions and demands, requiring an impressive array of linguistic,
metholological and inter-disciplinary skills.


the book moves away from an archeology of al-Andalus that focuses on unearthing
the object, towards and archeology of its afterlives, a phenomenology of its
echoes

impossibility of exhausting the search and study of all afterlives of
al-Andalus, book being in dialogue with earlier scholarship such as Civantos and
Scott. also because archeologies of al-Andalus such as these are in themselves
part of the afterlives of al-Andalus, as self-aware contributions, and may be
studied in the future as such, once the inquietudes driving them gain sharpness
over time.
